---
title: Important changes to locationforecast and nowcast
date: 2020-12-15
author: Geir Aalberg
layout: post
tags:
    - nowcast
    - locationforecast
    - weathericon
    - turbulence
    - sigcharts
---

After several months in beta, Nowcast 2.0 is finally officially launched. Both
this and Locationforecast have now got a definite date for termination of the
old versions.


Continuation of XML format
--------------------------

Based on popular feedback we have decided to continue the XML format for
Locationforecast and Nowcast into the foreseeable future. For this purpose we
have added a /classic XML variant to Nowcast, which is basically identical to
the version 0.9 format. This means porting from the old version should be much
faster than rewriting to use JSON.

To support the XML format in the future, we will extend it to include the new
symbol codes as introduced in Weathericon 2.0. Please use this instead of the
numerical codes which are now deprecated. Starting today the symbol elements
will look like this:

    <symbol id="PartlyCloud" number="3" code="partlycloudy_day"/>

You can then link this to the partlycloudy_day.png icon which can be downloaded
in Weathericon 2.0.

Some future additional changes to the XML format are to be expected. Some time
within the next six months we will remove the following elements from the XML
format; please don't use them in your clients:

    <temperatureProbability unit="probabilitycode" value="0"/>
    <windProbability unit="probabilitycode" value="0"/>
    <symbolProbability unit="probabilitycode" value="1"/>


Termination of old versions
---------------------------

Now that both products have been finalized, we have decided it is time to say
goodbye to the old versions, hailing from 2014 and 2016 respectively. On **March
1st, 2021 the following products will no longer be available:**

- Locationforecast 1.9
- Nowcast 0.9
- Weathericon 1.1

Please update your systems to use the new version if you haven't already. If you
keep running into 403 Forbidden errors, remember that according to the Terms of
Service you must identify yourself with a unique User-Agent HTTP request header
with contact information.


New version of Yr.no
--------------------

As some of you may have noticed, yr.no now points to the new version (formerly
the mobile site) and the old layout has been moved to retro.yr.no. The latter
site is expected to be turned off in the summer of 2021; at the same time the
old Yr API (varsel.xml/forecast.xml) will disappear. By this time users must
have converted to use Locationforecast/2.0 for continued service.

The Yr developers at NRK are working on making a downloadable dump of the
existings locations database, mapping place names to lat/lon coordinates. We'll
be back with more information on this once we have something to report.


Minor changes to other products
-------------------------------

**Sigcharts** has gotten a new parameter `validdate` which makes it possible to
see which day a plot is valid for. This is now included in the available list.

**Turbulence** has had some airports removed and Vigra airport added. We have also
enabled search by ICAO code instead of location name; this will become the
default search method in the future (which means the links in available will use
`icao` instead of `location` parameters). We recommend updating your clients to
use this at your earliest convenience.
