---
title: Maintenance period and new products
date: 2020-10-02
author: Geir Aalberg
layout: post
tags:
  - nowcast
  - geosatellite

---

The next two weeks we will be doing network upgrades which may result in
intermittent slower performance. We are also exited to bring you two new
products – an updated version of Nowcast and the return of the Geosatellite
image service.

Maintenance
-----------

During the periods 6th-8th and 13th-15th this month we will be upgrading our
datacenter network hubs. During this period we will be running with reduced
capacity for a few hours each day around midday UTC. In addition performance
will be somewhat slower due to rebuilding of caches and distributed storage
systems. Some heavy requests (e.g. available lists) may result in timeouts, but
we hopefully do not expect any downtime.

Nowcast 2.0 beta
----------------

After the very successfull update to our Locationforecast service, we have now
upgraded [Nowcast to a similar modern spec](https://api.met.no/weatherapi/nowcast/2.0/documentation).
New features include:

- a new JSON format, very similar to Locationforecast
- radar precipitation coverage extended from only Norway to include Sweden,
  Finland and Denmark (currently only northeastern parts)
- real-time corrected temperature forecasts for the whole MEPS area, see the
  [data model documentation](/doc/locationforecast/datamodel)

While some parts are still missing (documentation, JSON Schema, radar data for
the rest of Denmark) it is currently useable enough that you can familiarize
yourself with the new data format and start upgrading your clients. Currently we
do not have any estimate for how long the current 0.9 version will be supported.

Geosatellite images
-------------------

After having been unavailable for two years due to licencing issues, we have
finally resolved the situation. Unlike previously when only a small subset was
available, we are now able to offer you [the whole range of EUMETSAT image
products under the CC BY 4.0
license](https://api.met.no/weatherapi/geosatellite/1.4/documentation).

With over 4000 different images at any one time this also means that the
complete available list is very large and may result in timeouts. We therefore
urge you to filter this on your specific requirements, e.g. area, type and size.

Future works in progress
------------------------

We are currently working on updating our Oceanforecast service to the new JSON
standard. We have also started on a new project for improving our map services
(as seen on Yr.no). During our cooperation with the University of Oslo we have
gotten valuable feedback from students regarding map integrations on mobile app
development, but we are also very interested to hear from web developers what
kind of maps you would like to see and which protocols and formats you would
like to see supported.

If you have any feedback, please send us an email at weatherapi-adm@met.no with
the subject "Map feature requests". We will later collate this and use for
planning new map products which hopefully should be available next year.

