---
title: "I know what your API did last summer"
date: 2019-08-21
author: Geir Aalberg
layout: post
tags:
    - locationforecast
    - privacy
---

Making an API is a thankless task. Most users aren't aware they are using
it, and you rarely hear from the developers unless something isn't working.
While our weather site [Yr](https://yr.no/) is hugely popular, our API
doesn't get much publicity. So when we finally get some exposure, it's sad
to find only negative publicity, and misguided criticism at that.
But before addressing the issues, let's watch the presentation
(starting about 8:44 into the video).

<iframe allowFullScreen="allowFullScreen"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8LQYgnSx3lI//www.youtube.com/watch?ecver=1&amp;iv_load_policy=3&amp;rel=0&amp;yt:stretch=16:9&amp;autohide=1&amp;color=red&amp;start=524&amp;width=500&amp;width=500"
width="500" height="300" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0"></iframe>

## "...a company called met.no, seems to be a weather type service..."

To start with, met.no isn't a company, it's the Norwegian Meteorological
Institute – a state-owned, non-profit government organisation which has as
one of its missions to give free (both as in beer and in freedom) weather
data to the whole world. So far we've managed to do this without any
developer registration or other conditions than nicely asking not to
overload our services. As a consequence we have no clue about most of the
thousands of apps and sites using our services, and no way of contacting
them unless they subscribe to our mailing list or read the API front page.

From the interview one would get the impression we are making apps ourself
using unsecure communications. Such is not the case – the only app we have
some influence over is the Yr weather app, which doesn't speak with our API
at all. So already the (admittedly valid) criticism is targeted at the wrong
party.

## "... it was making an HTTP request, totally normal"

Disregarding that "it" in this case is an app we have no control over, we
have actually supported (and recommended) HTTPS for many years (although in
the old API this wasn't default because of compatibility issues). Since
the rewrite and launch of [WeatherAPI v.3](/doc/v3relnotes)
(which came out in beta in 2016 and was gradually phased in on a per-user
basis over the next year) we have *only* supported HTTPS. All unencrypted
HTTP traffic is either being redirected or blocked (more on this later).

To this day we still get complaints about this, e.g. when no longer being
able to use Squid as a local caching proxy, or using client libraries which
don't support SSL/TLS. Incredible as this may seem in 2019 it is still an
issue, and when your application is a watering plant run by a Saia-Burgess
PLC controller there is no sofware upgrade path.

About half of the requests to api.met.no are either throttled, blocked or
invalid. Of the latter, most are for products which were removed years ago.
We're still getting requests for locationforecast/1.8 which was removed in
2014(!). Most developers don't bother checking the response status codes,
so lots of sites and apps go on blindingly ignoring 304, 404 and 429 errors
for several years. And since many users don't update their mobile apps until
they have to, we're getting a lot of legacy traffic, included unencrypted
HTTP which we're unable to prevent people from sending us.

As an example, let's look at the HTTP traffic from Android (pre <5.0) apps where the
developer haven't read the TOS and uses the default "Dalvik" User-Agent header
which amounts to 13% of the total unencrypted HTTP traffic. These are the
amount of requests sorted by status code between 12 and 13 today (UTC):

|requests|status|protocol|
|------:|------|--------|
|  62054|301|HTTP|
|  44758|429|HTTPS|
|  35019|200|HTTPS|
|   1408|404|HTTPS|
|    313|400|HTTPS|
|     19|499|HTTPS|
|     17|503|HTTPS|

As the table shows, the unencrypted traffic amounts to a whooping 43% of the
total identifying only as Android (and an obsolete version at that). How
much of this actually handles the redirect is difficult to see as we don't
track users, but we find it hard to believe that 76% percent of the HTTPS
traffic comes from redirects. This means that a large portion of clients
never follow the redirect.

Of those who use HTTPS, an incredible 55% of the HTTPS requests are
being throttled for too much traffic or missing identification, while only
43% get a meaningful answer. The remaining requests (apart from a handful of
timeouts) are either for products which been discontinued (sunrise/1.1 is
still very popular) or they can't manage to construct a valid URL. That's a
lot of developers who can't be bothered to RTFM.

## "... trying to figure out when the sun goes up"

Now, this is where it gets interesting. Most of the HTTP traffic is actually
for locationforecast; sunrise doesn't count for more than about 5%. Of this,
5 out of 6 sunrise requests are actually zombie apps calling version 1.1,
which was discountinued in February and returns a 404. (Incredibly we also
get some for version 1.0 which was EOL in 2016!)

Still, that leaves about 1% of HTTP traffic for sunrise/2.0, which has **never**
worked with unencrypted HTTP. Every piece of documentation, example code
and tests we have published have been using HTTPS, so why are people still using
HTTP? These requests are (if identified at all) coming from Android, so either
there is something amiss with the Dalvik HTTP client stack, or developers are
intentionally breaking security by rewriting our examples from "https:" to
"http:". As the saying goes, it's hard to make stuff fool-proff because the
fools are so smart.

## "Latitude and longitude, that's harmless, right?"

Many of the requests do indeed contain geocoordinates. However, the vast
majority of these originate from servers located in data centers totally
remote from the geolocation in the request.
Even when an app enable location services on your phone, we have no way of
knowing if the coordinates are your actual GPS location or if you're just
checking the weather for your next trip to Paris. We're still getting
~25,000 different IP addresses from all over the world downloading the weather
forecast for a cornfield in Poznan, PL every 5 minutes, amounting to 3.15%
of the total api.met.no traffic.

## "... but you've got the MAC address [...] and lat/lon"

I confess this claim has us stumped, and after putting our collective heads
together we still can't figure out what they're getting at. Sure, the MAC
address is an identificator which can be used to link with personal data,
but that is never transmitted to us (what the app developers
are doing with your personal data you must ask them about).

Now, the only third party getting access to both your MAC address and
your unencrypted traffic is either the owner of your Wifi access point/router
or your phone operator. Admittedly, both these can be spoofed and your traffic
intercepted by evil middlemen. However, in both cases they can already
pretty much tell your geolocation even without snooping your data traffic.
When a phone is connected to (in this case) a 800mW faked wifi access point
and indoors it is pretty much given that the person is within a 50 m radius.
In fact this is how shops track customer behaviour, logging how much time
each person spends before each isle. Now, having the GPS coordinates in
addition would probably give you a better resolution, but then GPS reception
isn't great inside buildings anyway.

## "So now we can track that person when their phone requests updates"

Actually, no. The API doesn't collect any personal data, except for the
ubiquitous access log. We don't even use cookies or Google Analytics, not do
we write any mobile apps ourselves. The only potentially identifiable data
logged by us are the IP address (which for vast majority is either a website
server or a NATed 3G/4G address which changes every time you move into a new
cell tower area), the User-Agent string (set by the app) and the URL itself.
This log is used for monitoring resources, debugging errors and trying to
stem abuse, which is necessary to avoid the [tragedy of the
commons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons).

Sure, the app developers can (and probably will) track you, and the same goes
for your phone company or free Wifi provider. But that has nothing to do with
HTTP encryption, and very little to do with geolocation (which they know
already).

## HTTP redirects

Now, you might ask why we didn't go directly for HTTPS in the first place.
At the time api.met.no was lauched in 2007, this was not usually an option;
Facebook didn't offer HTTPS until 2011, and many client libraries did not
support it. While this now has changed, our main priority has always been
backwards compatibility, something we're proud of having had for 12 years
now, even though individual products and versions have come and gone.

As mentioned earlier, all of the unencrypted HTTP traffic is either blocked
or redirected, in the latter case to a similar HTTPS URL. Now, since we're
mirroring the original URL in the Location response header, it can be argued
that we still "support HTTP" since legacy apps can still go on working if
they handle the 301 properly. If they instead got a 404, the theory goes,
they would see the error in their ways and change their code to use HTTPS
instead.

Unfortunately, in practice that is not the case. The sites topping the list
of HTTP have all been blocked for abuse and get a 403 Forbidden response.
They have been blacklisted for years, but still continue to hammer our
servers with 14k req/hour each with no end in sight. For these large
websites there is no connection between the IP address and the geolocation
received by us, so any "leak of personal data" here would be between the
browser and the website if they're not using HTTPS.

If we can conclude that policing obsolete websites is futile, then this
goes double for obsolete mobile apps where it doesn't matter what the
developer does unless the user updates the app. As can be seen from the previous
table, a lot of the traffic isn't only against services which no longer exist,
but are also more than two years old and run on obsolete versions of Android.
There is not much hope that these apps will be updated any time soon.

Anyway, as a precaution we tried disabling the redirect to HTTPS to see what
happened. Not only did we get a lot of support tickets from developers who
couldn't figure out what was wrong, it also broke the website. Whereas you
previously could type e.g. "api.met.no/apis.json" in the browser location
bar and get JSON back, the browser actually defaults to unencrypted HTTP which
no longer works. Instead you actually have to type "https://" before the
hostname. Can you think of any other sites in 2019 where this is
necessary? Me neither.

In fact, all major sites we have tested (e.g. Google,
GitHub, Paypal, eBay) redirect HTTP requests to corresponding HTTPS URLs,
which is also recommended in all best practice documentation we have found,
including the [HTTP Strict Transport Security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security).
Here is an example of GitHub doing exactly the same thing:

    $ GET -Se http://api.github.com/users/octocat/orgs
    GET http://api.github.com/users/octocat/orgs
    301 Moved Permanently
    Connection: close
    Date: Fri, 23 Aug 2019 11:08:56 GMT
    Location: https://api.github.com/users/octocat/orgs
    Content-Length: 0
    Client-Date: Fri, 23 Aug 2019 11:08:57 GMT
    Client-Peer: 140.82.118.6:80
    Client-Response-Num: 1

    GET https://api.github.com/users/octocat/orgs
    200 OK

So we've rolled back the change, and until we can find a way to
differentiate zombies from actual live humans we're keeping it that way.

## The bottom line

So, the next time you hear someone boldly stating that

<blockquote>
<b>"APIs leak personal data"</b>
</blockquote>

you would be wise to interpret that as

<blockquote>
<b>"abandoned zombie apps, written by unknown parties for a defunct API,
who send unsolicited, not-very-personal data to non-existent services,
can be intercepted by hackers who will learn nothing they don't
already know, and there is nothing the API owner can do to prevent it".</b>
</blockquote>

Admittedly that won't make any headlines at a security conference. Instead,
if there's anything to learn from this, it's that most traffic against APIs
is actually noise, which you'll just have to learn to deal with. But
admittedly that doesn't make for good soundbites on <nop>YouTube.
