---
title: Ho, ho, ho and some API stocking fillers
date: 2019-12-20
author: Geir Aalberg
layout: post
tags:
    - locationforecast
    - radar
    - upperwindweather
    - icemap
    - lightning
    - uvforecast

---

We hope you all have been good developers this year, in which case you can
look forward to some new improved products next month (for those who have
been bad we will also be taking some away).

## Locationforecast

On December 3rd we launched the new backend for locationforecast/1.9. In
connection with that some of our users have noted that the topography for
Norway is not as accurate as before. This is because we use a terrain model
with a slightly coarser resolution. This does not affect the quality of our
temperature forecasts. However, due to requests from our users we will soon
return to a higher resolution topography for Norway.

Next year we also plan to introduce a higher resolution topography for our
global forecasts. This will make the forecast more accurate when not using
the recommended "msl" parameter to indicate elevation, which is hard to
implement e.g. in mobile apps.

We are also working hard on finalizing the JSON format in 2.0, as well as
improving the weathericon symbols so that you won't have to call sunrise to
know if to use a night or day version.

## Radar animations

Due to popular demand, we have decided to continue GIF animation in
radar/2.0 which will launch on Feb 3rd. Everything else will be different
though, included sizes (only one), areas (previously called radarsites),
types (more options) and formats (all static images are now in PNG).

Radar/1.5 will continue running until May 15th so you have plenty time to
update your systems. We still have plans to launch a Javascript animation
version, but this is not a high priority.

## More changes on Feb 3rd

Next year the sigcharts in **upperwindweather** will be moved to a new
product, possibly with some new charts to follow. The upperwindweather
product will then be deprecated, and eventually removed from the public api.

We will also be launching a new version 2.0 of **icemap** with more and better
maps of the Arctic. The old version 1.5 will continue running until March.

We have also decided to retire the little-used **lightning** product on
api.met.no. Since you now can download lightning data more or less in real
time from Frost, there is little use for 5 min old data from the API. The
data will continue to be delivered in UALF format as before. You can test
out the new product [here](https://frost.met.no/api.html#/lightning)
(remember to register for a developer key).

Finally the **radar/1.5** and **uvforecast** products will be end-of-lifed on
May 15th, to be replaced by the improved radar/2.0 and locationforecast/2.0
respectively.
