---
title: More changes to Radar and Radarlightning
date: 2019-07-02
author: Geir Aalberg
layout: post
tags:
    - radar
---

Due to increased workload by the new 5 min radar interval, we have had to
reduce the number of different images available. In short, generating GIF
animations from existing static GIF images continues as before. However, due
to the 50% increase in images and 33% shorter production window, generating
animations from PNG is no longer possible and has been terminated. We
apologize for the lack of advance notice, but we had not foreseen this would
be a problem.

Since we know this will cause existing functionality to break, we've come up
with a temporary solution where we substitute the missing animations with
similar products. In most cases the pixel dimensions will be different, but
this can be scaled in the browser. Also note that content=image and
content=animation now will return totally different images, so be wary of
using size=small for static thumbnails for the animations.

reflectivity_hires and rainrate_with_phase
------------------------------------------

All animations of type reflectivity_hires and rainrate_with_phase will be
substituted with type reflectivity. Where radarsite indicates an area these
will be identical, but single radars will be substituted to the closest area
as per the following table:

|Old       |New              |
|----------|-----------------|
|andoya    |nordland_troms   |
|berlevaag |finnmark         |
|bomlo     |western_norway   |
|hafjell   |east_norway      |
|hagebostad|southwest_norway |
|hasvik    |finnmark         |
|hurum     |southeast_norway |
|rissa     |trlagnordland    |
|rost      |nordland         |
|somna     |trlagnordland    |
|stad      |western_norway   |

lightning
---------

All requests for lightning animations (including the Radarlightning product)
now return the "norway" image. All other animations have been terminated.

We have some images currently used internally which could be substituted for
each individual area, but they are currently not available on the API. We
will be working on a possible replacement later this summer.

"medium" and "large" size static images
---------------------------------------

The little used "medium" and "large" sizes have been terminated.
All requests for these sizes now return the "normal" image. If you scale
this in the browser it should not be noticable to the end users.
This does not affect radarlightning which already uses only "normal" size.

Also, the small GIF animations haven't been produced for a long time
and will be removed from the API. This means only the following variations
will be available in the future:

|Content  |  Size                 |
|---------|-----------------------|
|animation|normal (default)       |
|image    |normal (default), small|

Again, we're sorry for the inconvenience, but hopefully the faster radar
scan rate should compensate for the reduced size options.

Future changes
--------------

In closing, we will like to inform you that later this year we'll be
releasing a new beta version of the Radar service, with a coherent set of
areas and types which should be much more understandable than the current
mess. Also, GIF animations will be replaced by Javascript, which should be
much more user-friendly as you can then pause or jump forwards and backwards
in time to see details.

We strongly suggest you consider dropping GIF animation as soon as possible,
since now that most partners are using Javascript or WMS we plan to phase
out GIF completely <del>by the end of 2019</del> sometime during early 2020.
