---
title: Changes to Textforecast and Locationforecast
date: 2019-11-13
author: Geir Aalberg
layout: post
tags:
    - textforecast
    - locationforecast
    - locationforecastlts
---

We will shortly be making some changes to the existing versions of
Textforecast and Locationforecast.


Textforecast
------------

The *seahigh* and *seabank* products will be replaced with a
new, auto-generated product (named **sea**) which will be available on
December 3rd (possibly earlier). The old forecasts will continue production
until February 1st, after which requests will be returned the new *sea*
forecast instead.


Locationforecast
----------------

We will shortly be changing the backend for the locationforecast to a new,
cloud-based service. For the immediate future there will be very little
change for the users except for higher performance. There are some minimal
changes to the version 1.9 output, in short:

1. Only 1- and 6-hour forecasts will be supported, the 2- and
3-hour intervals will be removed.

2. We have added precipitation minvalues and maxvalues for the whole
forecast for the Nordic and Arctic regions, not just the first two days:

    <precipitation unit="mm" value="0.0" minvalue="0.0" maxvalue="0.6"/>

3. The EPS, LOCAL and EC* models in the meta header are no longer relevant.
We now how only one model (met_public_forecast), with a single `runended`
and `nextrun` timestamp.

4. The global forecast (outside the Nordic and Arctic regions) will be
shortened by 6 hours. As a compensation it will update every 6 hours,
instead of every 12 hours as previously.

If you experience any problems due to these changes, we suggest temporarily
switching over to LocationforecastLTS until you can make the necessary
changes.


LocationforecastLTS
-------------------

As Locationforecast and LocationforecastLTS currently runs on the same old
backend and is virtually similar, we have decided to end-of-life this product
as it is impossible to guarantee the same output on the new backend. This
means LocationforecastLTS will be officially deprecated once the new model
is in production, but will not be terminated until the end of February 2020
at the earliest (which should be plenty of time to change your
implementation). Since the new backend is much faster and has a more correct
forecast, we suggest changing over to I<Locationforecast> as soon as possible.


Plans for next year
-------------------

Some of the planned changes for the next 6 months include:

**Locationforecast**

In the long term we will be launching a new 2.0 version, which features:

- a new, proper JSON format (instead of conversion from XML)
- probability values (as in the current probabilityforecast)
- UV index data (replacing the current UVforecast product)
- more understandable weathersymbol codes, hopefully without the need to contact sunrise

At the same time we will be deprecating the **Probabilityforecast** and
**UVforecast** products since the data will now be available in
Locationforecast instead.

**Radar and Radarlightning:** These will be consolidated into a new version
Radar/2.0, with removal of some unused products and replacement of GIF
animations with Javascript templates.

**UVforecast:** These are produced by external parties, and we experienced
distribution problems last summer. Since UV data will be available in
locationforecast/2.0, the UVforecast product will be terminated after Easter
2020. UV maps should still be available from external distributors.

**ExtremesWWC:** This product will be replaced by a similar feature on our
observations and climate API frost.met.no.

We do not have exact dates for the above changes, but will return with
updates once we have more specific information.
