---
title: All quiet on the Corona front
date: 2020-04-20
author: Geir Aalberg
layout: post
tags:
    - radar
    - sigmets
    - locationforecastlts
---

Hope you are all doing ok in these difficult times. Here at MET Norway it's
business as usual. Most of us are working from home, but since the API team
already did this for half the week there's not much difference. Here's a
summary of the changes so far this year:

## End of Life'd products

The following products have been deprecated and will be removed on 15 May 2020:

- [UVforecast](/weatherapi/uvforecast/1.0/documentation)
- [Radar/1.5](/weatherapi/radar/1.5/documentation)
- [Sigmets/1.0](/weatherapi/sigmets/1.0/documentation)

The following have also been deprecated, probable EOL times as indicated:

- [LocationforecastLTS](/weatherapi/locationforecastlts/1.3/documentation) (August 2020)
- [Locationforecast/1.9](/weatherapi/locationforecast/1.9/documentation) (January 2021)

## New products

### Locationforecast 2.0

[Version 2.0](/weatherapi/locationforecast/2.0/documentation) is nearing
completion, the only major feature missing is documentation. We have decided to
split the output into three different endpoints:

- default (new, plain vanilla JSON)
- compact (a lite version of JSON with less bloat)
- classic (good old fashioned XML, to be used responsibly)

Also, the unit for temperature has been changed in JSON from "C" to "celsius" to
conform with CF standards.

### Weathericon 2.0

We are also happy to launch [a new set of corresponding weather
icons](/weatherapi/weathericon/2.0/documentation). Unlike the former numerical
codes in 1.9, the 2.0 "symbol_code" variable is based on a mnemonic code and
correspond exactly to the icon filename (minus extension). All icons are
available in PNG, SVG and PDF formats, and can be downloaded as a gzipped TAR
archive:

In addition you can also get [a table matching the new and old symbol
codes](/weatherapi/weathericon/2.0/legends), as well as explanatory texts in
English and several variations of Norwegian:

### Radar 2.0

Radar have been upgraded to [version 2.0](/weatherapi/radar/2.0/documentation),
with new parameters, new areas, new sizes and a new projection. GIF animations
will still be producted for the time being.

### Sigmets 2.0

The new [version 2.0](/weatherapi/sigmets/2.0/documentation) delivers both
SIGMETS and AIRMETS, but now also includes wind shear warnings. You can now ask
for each type separately, but by default you will get all in the same response.
Also the long-standing bug where warnings would be included twice have finally
been fixed.

### Sigcharts

This was previously part of Upperwindweather, but has now been launched as
[a separate product](/weatherapi/sigcharts/1.0/documentation).

## Other changes

### LocationforecastLTS

As mentioned last year we have deprecated the
[LocationforecastLTS](/weatherapi/locationforecastlts/1.3/documentation)
product, which will be retired some time after we have launched the new
Locationforecast 2.0. In the mean time, the background model for the Nordic area
(MEPS) have been replaced with a new, improved model (CMEPS) which is run
every hour.

Unfortunately, some little used parameters are no longer present in the new
model, which means that some slight changes have been made to locationforecastlts:

* the parameter areaMaxWindSpeed was removed
* there will no longer be available time intervals backward in time

These changes are only be visible for the Nordic area (Norway, Sweden, Denmark
and Finland). The rest of the world (which uses the
EC model) remains unchanged.

### MetAlerts

Some of you may have noticed that about half of the municipalities in Norway got
new codes ("kommunenummer") this year. This was implemented in
[MetAlerts](/weatherapi/metalerts/1.1/documentation) this March. As you cannot
search on municipalites yet (only counties) rhis does not affect the API
interface, but if you are extracting kommunenr from the CAP files you should
search for both old and new numbers.

### New backend

In March we changed the file storage backend for non-dynamic products. This
should result in faster response times and greatly reduce the occurence of
delivering stale data.

## Future plans for 2020

- Icemap/2.0 (possibly with GeoJSON)
- Probabilityforecast/2.0, Nowcast/2.0 and Oceanforecast/2.0 in JSON formats
